the next round of talks we're gonna do a
round of lightning talks so this next
section is going to be short quick
project updates that are each about five
minutes long I and and what we're gonna
do is I'll do the first one one mine
might be slightly more than five minutes
I'm gonna try to keep it too hung let's
tie me and then what I will answer
questions I'll take maybe two questions
but I'll answer questions while the next
person is setting up they're setting up
their computers so we're gonna try to
turn this around quickly because we want
to pack in a bunch of rapid-fire
information before our brains collapse
from all the inputs and then after that
we'll go to lunch and lunch will be
right out here in the lobby
so I beginning my talk this is an
overview of the whole ipfs and lib p2p
ecosystem or a review of that ecosystem
so it echos some of the things you saw
in Paul's keynote and it's also pointing
forward to some of the Lightning talks
you're going to see or sessions that you
will see proposed for the week and an
important starting point when you're
looking at this ecosystem around ipfs
and the p2p I need to set my timer is
that we're asking this question of who
gets to be appear on the internet and
we're building the tools or building
towards the future where everyone has
access to the technical capacity of
being a peer on the Internet and so
there are a lot of factors to that
because that's not just about technical
possibility it's also about who has
access to the technology who has the
knowledge to wield that technology so
we're working in a big ambitious space
and are many different projects which
sometimes seemed scattered are touching
many things because we're trying to
upgrade the whole the whole web the
whole system to give everyone this
technical capacity so three key items in
here are ipfs the again as you saw in
Juan's keynote we haven't finalized a
mission statement for ipfs so these are
not what are in
slides are not mission statements
they're more like a gesture a reminder
of what these projects are focused on so
ipfs is focused on upgrading the web to
be content addressed and it's which that
means identifying a content by what it
is rather than identifying content by
where it is and then having done that
having that identifier space allowing
people to exchange data peer-to-peer
without relying on central parties in
order to achieve that we need Lib p2p we
need a robust networking stack and
libraries that allow us to find peers
connect with them securely and exchange
data directly with them without relying
on central parties so it's that second
part of the ipfs purpose that is
primarily tackled by Lib p2p and then
there's no point in having all that
connectivity if we can't actually
express our data in ways that it's
useful so that's where IPL D comes in
and this is the in a way like one of the
more heady in big picture projects is
thinking in terms of a unified model for
expressing any data that is content
addressed or linked with hashes anywhere
on the network being able to compute and
process and find that data so to go a
little bit more detail into each of
those projects ipfs speaks to many
different things for many different
people so there's the sense of
resilience of imagining a library of
alexandria that can't be burned so how
do you achieve that how do you achieve
data be existing in many places and
being held in ways that it can't be lost
building distributed applications making
it possible for people to build offline
first applications purely peer-to-peer
applications blockchain based
applications then there's data
stewardship allowing people excuse me to
manage their data coordinate storage of
that data replicating it describing it
analyzing it recontextualizing it
excuse me which leads to this which
leads to this topic of possession and
participation so what data will we
choose to
what data will we participate in
redistributing or decline to participate
and redistributing so sorry that gets at
all these topics of censorship and
coordination and then excuse me I'm
sorry I'm coughing and then the final
topic would be immutable distributed
data for machine analysis and there's
the there's the versioning uses there
meanwhile Lib p2p handles a lot of most
of the written many or most of the
really difficult challenges of ipfs so
it's handling things like NAT traversal
the DHT content routing peer discovery
this is the stuff that makes it possible
for ipfs to function as a peer-to-peer
network alright but the interesting
thing is that it's not just ipfs that
needs that it's anyone who's building
peer-to-peer applications and so this is
where lit p2p is growing into its own
thing with a broader use of users there
a broader set of users and then finally
IPL D it's making it possible to link
across systems and formats version
metadata querying data transforming data
doing all of these things in distributed
ways it's tackling the data structures
in order to make that possible now all
three of those things intersect when you
start applying these technologies and
you want to deal with things like access
control reader privacy writer privacy
real-time updates of data on a network
handling identity censorship allow lists
and block lists or also indexing data
querying and versioning and discovery of
the data it relies on all of these
pieces being assembled in ways that
actually work for people and so how do
we achieve that our approach is to build
community structures and decision-making
structures that allow many many people
to participate in imagining what's
possible and build build the tools that
make those things possible and so a key
thing here is that the innovation on the
protocol we are configuring things so
that the innovation on the protocol is
driven by product development that's
folk
just on users in the world so if you're
developing products and you're engaged
in a working group those are the things
that ultimately drive the priorities for
implementing the protocols and
strengthening them and making them more
robust meanwhile in order to achieve
this and actually include as many people
as possible in this innovative process
this reimagining of the future we need
to work really hard on having a
genuinely diverse global inclusive
community that's using open source
principles and then fundamentally like
one hammer Don in a lot of ways ship
stuff that works just work really hard
to polish what we make and make it work
really well for people make it easy to
use
a preview some of these working groups
are giving lightning talks so you'll get
a lot more detail of them there's the
core working group which coordinates the
overall mission and activities of ipfs
and Lib p2p and also just coordinates
the RFC process and the rest of the
working groups and then there's the core
implementations go Lib go ipfs JSI PFS
go Lib pw j s IP Lib p2p etc then we
have the web browsers and GUI working
groups documentation working group we
have all the activities around community
offs that Michael is spinning up we have
the dynamic data and capabilities
working group dealing with these
challenges of data structures and
dynamic data and encryption and identity
for building applications in a
distributed context we have the work
around decentralized data stewardship
that Michele Hertzfeld is is taking on
and then we have an infrastructure team
that's doing a huge amount so that's a
sampling of the working groups that we
have if you think there's something
missing here propose a working group and
we'd be eager to hear about it and and
how you want to form it and then some
sampling of some of the growth that you
can see the PDP is starting to fly on
its own as its own it's moving towards
being its own organization that is very
much interlinked with ipfs organization
but it's able to have its own its own
meetings its own stakeholders its own
roadmaps and mike-mike goals are is is
leading that introducing the peer star
framework which is a framework for
building decentralized applications and
that includes
and the other applications that are
using the pierced our libraries and then
expanding our support for decentralized
data stewardship and making our PFS work
really well for large volumes of data
and then finally all of this work around
scaling working groups reimagining how
we can use okrs
to work in a large open distributed way
so that's where we get to this meeting
which is a important milestone in the
growth of the community we're making
this venue for high bandwidth
interactions between people in our
community so that we can align in terms
of mission values roadmaps objectives
and then also figure out how to showcase
people's work and promote it and
celebrate it so this is this is very
exciting and that is also a precursor to
having an IP FS Kampf which we're aiming
to do in Lisbon in November and that
will be a much larger venue for people
to gather and learn about ipfs and share
their work so that I hope this helps as
a preview of what you're gonna see in
people's individual slides from
different working groups and teams and
so then if they divvy to you next all
right
so wall to bead setting up his his
laptop does anyone have questions for me